README.md, before:

# saas-boilerplate
This is a SaaS boilerplate built on top of the Laravel framework. 
Built to provide developers with a template to kickoff their SaaS application,
without the hustle for repetitive tasks such as user account setup, subscriptions 
and role management.

## features
- Authentication
    - Login / Registration
    - Email Activation
    - Two Factor Login (only when enabled)
- Subscription with Stripe
    - User plans
    - Team plans
- Account (User Account)
    - Profile Update
    - Change Password
    - Two Factor Authentication
    - Subscription
        - Cancel Subscription
        - Resume Subscription
        - Swap Plan
        - Update Card
    - API Tokens
- Single Database Multi-tenancy
- Admin
    - User Management
        - Manage User Roles
    - Role & Permissions Management
- Developer Panel
    - Manage OAuth Clients
    - Manage Personal Access Tokens   
- Other features
    - Filtering (extendable)
    - API access (starter template)

*Note: Some features may be subjected to change. Other features may not be listed 
since they are under development or do not qualify as a standard / main SaaS feature. 
Some common features will not be listed as well.*

## installation
1. Fork, clone or download this repository.
2. Run `composer install` if its the initial setup or `composer update`.
3. Setup your environment keys in .env 
    (*If .env does not exist then copy / rename .env.example as .env*)
4. Run `php artisan app:name` to set the name (namespace) of your app. 
    (*Remember not to live any spaces*)
5. Run `php artisan migrate` for initial tables setup.
6. `Optional` Run `php artisan db:seed --class=RoleTableSeeder` to set the initial 
    roles and permissions if you opt to use the initial user and roles management.

## usage
### Single Database Multi-tenancy
#### Model setup
To start using single databse multi-tenancy call `ForTenants` trait on a model
```php
use SAASBoilerplate\App\Tenant\Traits\ForTenants;

class Project extends Model
{
    use ForTenants;
}
```

#### Tenants CRUD Operations
Once you have setup the model as show above. `Just call CRUD operations directly`. 
`Tenant` relationships are handled automatically.

```php
$projects = Project::create([
    'name' => 'Project 1'
]);
$projects = Project::get();
```

#### Normal CRUD Operations
To perform CRUD operations on models with `ForTenants` trait can be done by 
adding `withoutForTenants` scope when fetching records associated with that model.

```php
$projects = Project::withoutForTenants()->get();
```

***This comes in handy for example in: admin or moderation operations***

#### Routing
All `tenant` routes are under the routes folder in the `tenant.php` file.

Note: ***Tenant routes follow the same structure as other routes***

`The main reason we place all tenant routes separately is to handle route binding and
its much easier to know which routes are for tenants.`

## libraries & packages
- Main
    - PHP (>=7.1.3)
    - Laravel (Minimal 5.6)
    - Laravel Cashier (can be switched)
- UI (can be switched)
    - Bootstrap (v4)
    - Font awesome
    - Simple Line Icons
    - jQuery
    - VueJs
    - Development
        - nodejs
        - npm

## services
- Stripe (payment gateway)
- Authy by Twilio (two factor authentication)

Commit message:

Add Force HTTPS configuration
Added url scheme service provider to force HTTPS on assets based on config
Updated .env.example to include 'FORCE_HTTPS' config
Updated README.md

README.md, after:

# saas-boilerplate
This is a SaaS boilerplate built on top of the Laravel framework. 
Built to provide developers with a template to kickoff their SaaS application,
without the hustle for repetitive tasks such as user account setup, subscriptions 
and role management.

## features
- Authentication
    - Login / Registration
    - Email Activation
    - Two Factor Login (only when enabled)
- Subscription with Stripe
    - User plans
    - Team plans
- Account (User Account)
    - Profile Update
    - Change Password
    - Two Factor Authentication
    - Subscription
        - Cancel Subscription
        - Resume Subscription
        - Swap Plan
        - Update Card
    - API Tokens
- Single Database Multi-tenancy
- Admin
    - User Management
        - Manage User Roles
    - Role & Permissions Management
- Developer Panel
    - Manage OAuth Clients
    - Manage Personal Access Tokens   
- Other features
    - Filtering (extendable)
    - API access (starter template)

*Note: Some features may be subjected to change. Other features may not be listed 
since they are under development or do not qualify as a standard / main SaaS feature. 
Some common features will not be listed as well.*

## installation
1. Fork, clone or download this repository.
2. Run `composer install` if its the initial setup or `composer update`.
3. Setup your environment keys in .env 
    (*If .env does not exist then copy / rename .env.example as .env*)
4. Run `php artisan app:name` to set the name (namespace) of your app. 
    (*Remember not to live any spaces*)
5. Run `php artisan migrate` for initial tables setup.
6. `Optional` Run `php artisan db:seed --class=RoleTableSeeder` to set the initial 
    roles and permissions if you opt to use the initial user and roles management.

## usage
### Force HTTPS
When pushing the project to a platform or production environment, 
assets or urls may be broken if the platform enforces HTTPS.
 
To enable urls to use HTTPS:

Set `FORCE_HTTPS` variable in `.env` file to `true`. 

By default `FORCE_HTTPS` is `false`.

```Note: ``` If `FORCE_HTTPS` does not exist in your `.env`, 
just add it as a new variable and assign a boolean value `true` or `false`.

This dynamically tells Laravel to force urls to use HTTPS which is especially 
handy in fixing or preventing  broken assets urls.

### Single Database Multi-tenancy
#### Model setup
To start using single databse multi-tenancy call `ForTenants` trait on a model
```php
use SAASBoilerplate\App\Tenant\Traits\ForTenants;

class Project extends Model
{
    use ForTenants;
}
```

#### Tenants CRUD Operations
Once you have setup the model as show above. `Just call CRUD operations directly`. 
`Tenant` relationships are handled automatically.

```php
$projects = Project::create([
    'name' => 'Project 1'
]);
$projects = Project::get();
```

#### Normal CRUD Operations
To perform CRUD operations on models with `ForTenants` trait can be done by 
adding `withoutForTenants` scope when fetching records associated with that model.

```php
$projects = Project::withoutForTenants()->get();
```

***This comes in handy for example in: admin or moderation operations***

#### Routing
All `tenant` routes are under the routes folder in the `tenant.php` file.

Note: ***Tenant routes follow the same structure as other routes***

`The main reason we place all tenant routes separately is to handle route binding and
its much easier to know which routes are for tenants.`

## libraries & packages
- Main
    - PHP (>=7.1.3)
    - Laravel (Minimal 5.6)
    - Laravel Cashier (can be switched)
- UI (can be switched)
    - Bootstrap (v4)
    - Font awesome
    - Simple Line Icons
    - jQuery
    - VueJs
    - Development
        - nodejs
        - npm

## services
- Stripe (payment gateway)
- Authy by Twilio (two factor authentication)
